[DCOS-59713] [DS] [Spark Operator] Document Spark History Server configuration options (#23)
mesosphere/kudo-spark-operator: history-server.md

# Spark History Server

### Prerequisites

Required software:
* K8s cluster
* [KUDO CLI Plugin](https://kudo.dev/docs/#install-kudo-cli) 0.7.3 or higher
* [kubens](https://github.com/ahmetb/kubectx)

### Installing Spark Operator with History Server Enabled

```
kubens spark-operator

> kubectl kudo install ./kudo-operator -p operatorImageName=mesosphere/kudo-spark-operator -p operatorVersion=latest -p enableHistoryServer=true

Reviewer: let's put each param on a newline for better readability since the last param is arguably the most important. E.g.
```
kubectl kudo install ./kudo-operator \
  -p operatorImageName=mesosphere/kudo-spark-operator 
  -p operatorVersion=latest \
  -p enableHistoryServer=true

```

> This will setup Spark History Server Pod and Service with Spark Event Log directory pointing to a location `/opt/spark/work-dir` (which you can change by passing another location to a parameter `historyServerFsLogDirectory`). This location is local to a Pod of Spark History Server. If we wnat to make it persistent and shared between different Pods, we have to create a PVC (Persistent Volume Claim) and pass it while starting the Spark History Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will deploy a Pod and Service for the `Spark History Server` with the `Spark Event Log` directory configured via the `historyServerFsLogDirectory` parameter. By default, the directory is set to  `/opt/spark/work-dir`. This location is local to the `Spark History Server` pod. If users want to persist and share the data between different pods, users must create a Persistent Volume Claim (PVC) and specify that claim in the Spark History Server manifest.
```

> Suppose you have created a PVC with name `history-server-pvc`, than you can install Spark Operator using following command by passing PVC name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose you have created a PVC with the name `history-server-pvc`, then you can install the Spark Operator using the following command:
```

```

> kubectl kudo install ./kudo-operator -p operatorImageName=mesosphere/kudo-spark-operator -p operatorVersion=latest -p enableHistoryServer=true -p historyServerPVCName=history-server-pvc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl kudo install ./kudo-operator \
  -p operatorImageName=mesosphere/kudo-spark-operator \
  -p operatorVersion=latest \
  -p enableHistoryServer=true \
  -p historyServerPVCName=history-server-pvc
```

```

### Creating Spark Application

Make sure `specs/spark-application.yaml` has these two configurations added under `spec.sparkConf`.

```
"spark.eventLog.enabled": "true"
"spark.eventLog.dir": "/opt/spark/work-dir"
```

> If PVC is passed while installing the Spark Operator, make sure these two fields are also added with following values:

Reviewer: How about moving this section to right below the [PVC section](https://github.com/mesosphere/kudo-spark-operator/pull/23/files#diff-3661bdb8914b4bffb2d2878819c5d731R22) so it's a continuation of steps if the user sets the PVC?

```
# Add this under SparkApplicationSpec
Volumes:
- name: pvc-storage
  persistentVolumeClaim:
    claimName: history-server-pvc

# Add this under SparkPodSpec
volumeMounts:
- mountPath: "/opt/spark/work-dir"
  name: pvc-storage
```

Now we can run the application as follows:

```
kubectl apply -f specs/spark-application.yaml
```

If we don't create a PVC and run the Spark Operator with History Server enabled as well as launch the Spark Application, we won't be able to see the logs generated by the application. Because the Pod running the application has its own local log directory and the Pod running the history server has its own local log directory. By creating PVC, we are making it persistent and shared among these two Pods.

### Accessing Spark History Server UI

By running following command we can get the name of the Pod running the Spark History Server.

```
kubectl get pods
```

Now you can run this command to expose the UI in your local machine.
`kubectl port-forward <history-server-pod-name> <local-port>:<container-port>`

For example:
```

> kubectl port-forward spark-history-server-7f876d79b5-c9pdl 18080:18080

Reviewer: After this step, where do users go to access the UI?

Author: He can open access it at `localhost:18080`. I can add this in the doc.

# Spark History Server

### Prerequisites

Required software:
* K8s cluster

> * [KUDO CLI Plugin](https://kudo.dev/docs/#install-kudo-cli) 0.7.3 or higher

Reviewer 2: we should recommend using KUDO `0.7.5` or higher because it contains several important fixes.

Author: Updated the version.

### Installing Spark Operator with History Server Enabled

```
kubectl kudo install ./kudo-operator \

>     -n <NAMESPACE> \

Reviewer 2: did KUDO add `-n` support? I think users still need to provide `--namespace` instead

Author: No KUDO is not supporting `-n`, replaced it with `--namespace`. Thanks for pointing it out.

    -p operatorImageName=mesosphere/kudo-spark-operator \

>     -p operatorVersion=latest \

Reviewer 2: let's remove `-p operatorImageName=mesosphere/kudo-spark-operator` and `-p operatorVersion=latest` to focus on SHS in this how-to.

Author: Removed these parameters.

    -p enableHistoryServer=true \
    -p historyServerFsLogDirectory="s3a://<BUCKET_NAME>/<FOLDER>" \
    -p historyServerOpts="-Dspark.hadoop.fs.s3a.access.key=<AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID> -Dspark.hadoop.fs.s3a.secret.key=<AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY> -Dspark.hadoop.fs.s3a.impl=org.apache.hadoop.fs.s3a.S3AFileSystem"
```

This will deploy a Pod and Service for the `Spark History Server` with the `Spark Event Log` directory configured via the `historyServerFsLogDirectory` parameter. This is an S3 backed storage for event logs. Spark Operator also supports Persistent Volume Claim (PVC) based storage. There is a parameter `historyServerPVCName` to pass the name of the PVC. Make sure that provided PVC should have `ReadWriteMany` [access mode](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#access-modes) supported.

### Creating Spark Application

> Make sure `specs/spark-application.yaml` has these configurations present under `spec.sparkConf`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure `specs/spark-application.yaml` has these properties specified under `spec.sparkConf`:
```

```
"spark.eventLog.enabled": "true"
"spark.eventLog.dir": "s3a://<BUCKET_NAME>/<FOLDER>"
"spark.hadoop.fs.s3a.access.key": "<AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID>"
"spark.hadoop.fs.s3a.secret.key": "<AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>"
```

If PVC is passed while installing the Spark Operator, make sure these two fields are also added with following values:

```
# Add this under SparkApplicationSpec
Volumes:
- name: pvc-storage
  persistentVolumeClaim:
    claimName: <HISTORY_SERVER_PVC_NAME>

# Add this under SparkPodSpec
volumeMounts:
- mountPath: <HISTORY_SERVER_FS_LOG_DIRECTORY>
  name: pvc-storage
```

> Make sure that CRD and RBAC for SparkApplication is already created. Now we can run the application as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure that CRD and RBAC for SparkApplication are already created. Now we can run the application as follows:
```

```
kubectl apply -n <NAMESPACE> -f specs/spark-application.yaml
```

### Accessing Spark History Server UI

You can run this command to expose the UI in your local machine.

`kubectl port-forward <HISTORY_SERVER_POD_NAME> 18080:18080`

Verify local access using this: `curl -L localhost:18080`

> ### List of available parameters for Spark History Server

Reviewer 2: 👍 a great example of user-focused documentation

Author: Thanks

| historyServerFsLogDirectory  | ""            | Spark EventLog Directory from which to load events for prior Spark job runs (e.g., hdfs://hdfs/ or s3a://path/to/bucket). |
| historyServerCleanerEnabled  | false         | Specifies whether the Spark History Server should periodically clean up event logs from storage.                          |
| historyServerCleanerInterval | 1d            | Frequency the Spark History Server checks for files to delete.                                                            |
| historyServerCleanerMaxAge   | 7d            | History files older than this will be deleted.                                                                            |
| historyServerOpts            | ""            | Extra options to pass to the Spark History Server                                                                         |
| historyServerPVCName         | ""            | External Persistent Volume Claim Name used for Spark event logs storage                                                   |

> Note: Value passed as parameter will get the priority over the value passed as option in the parameter `historyServerOpts`.

Reviewer 2: 👍
